---
author: Hanieh Saeedi and Angelika Brandt
excerpt: The Biogeographic Atlas of the Deep NW Pacific Fauna’ has been published
  by Pensoft as an open-access e-book, after a three-year intense collaboration of
  more than 40 deep-sea experts around the word. This book is designed as a guide,
  synthesis, and review of the current knowledge of the benthic fauna that is distributed
  in the bathyal and abyssal zones (below 2,000 m) of the NW Pacific. All the data
  (old and new) used are available in OBIS.
feed: true
image: /images/nwp.png
lang: en
layout: post
link: https://doi.org/10.3897/ab.e51315
purpose: usecase
tags:
- NW Pacific
- deep-sea
- benthos
title: (free e-book) Biogeographic Atlas of the Deep NW Pacific Fauna
---

<p>This book is designed as a guide, synthesis, and review of the current knowledge of the benthic fauna that is distributed in the bathyal and abyssal zones (below 2,000 m) of the NW Pacific. This book consists of 21 chapters, with an introduction followed by 20 chapters on taxonomy and biogeography of different deep-sea taxa including Porifera, Cnidaria, Brachiopoda, Entoprocta, Nemertea, Solenogastres, Bivalvia, Sipuncula, Polychaeta, Echiura, Nematoda, Kinorhyncha, Pygnogonida, Ascothoracida, Ostracoda, Decapoda, Amphipoda, Isopoda, Ascothoracida, Tanaidacea, Echinoidea and Asteroidea. Thousands of distribution records were retrieved from OBIS and merged with their own sampling distribution data from four deep-sea cruises (SoJaBio, SokhoBio, and KuramBio I and II) along the deep NW Pacific. In total, 7,042 unique deep-sea benthos taxa records were used, with 1,723 records at the species level. The dataset is available here: https://obis.org/dataset/3425145f-8016-403a-abca-9cb33a29108e. 

In times of rapid climate change and increasing anthropogenic impact, a compilation of life at the seafloor in the deep sea, where environmental parameters resemble those of the Arctic Ocean, is urgently needed. Based on such urgent needs, this book is very timely and provides not only insights into NW Pacific deep-sea benthic biodiversity and species compositions, but also forms a fundamental regional study of the NW Pacific required for understanding the ecosystem services and decision-making assessments in order to prioritize conservation criteria across multiple biodiversity conservation initiatives and groups. This book also represents an important backbone study for the United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development (2021–2030). This decade aim to ensure that ocean science can support nations’ activities to sustainably manage the ocean and in particular to reach the goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.</p>

<p>Reference: Saeedi H, Brandt A (2020) Biogeographic Atlas of the Deep NW Pacific Fauna. Advanced Books. https://doi.org/10.3897/ab.e51315</p>