---
author: OBIS
excerpt: The Flanders Marine Institute is recruiting a Data Manager GOOS Biology,
  for secondment to the OBIS secretariat at the IOC Project Office for IODE, in Belgium.
  This is a short-term (initially one year) full-time contract. Duty Station is Oostende
  (Belgium). Application deadline 10 August 2021.
feed: true
identifier: VN-GOOS
image: /images/vn.png
imageplaceholder: VACANCY<br/>data manager GOOS biology
lang: en
layout: post
purpose: news
tags:
- Vacancy
- Data Manager
title: Vacancy - Data manager GOOS Biology
---

The Flanders Marine Institute (VLIZ) is recruiting a _Data Manager GOOS Biology_, for secondment to the OBIS secretariat at the IOC Project Office for IODE, in Belgium. This is a short-term (initially one year) full-time contract. Duty Station is Oostende (Belgium). Application deadline 10 August 2021.

You will work under the supervision of the OBIS project manager and in close consultation with the OBIS data manager and the experts of the Biology and Ecoystems  panel of the Global Ocean Observing System (GOOS BioEco).

You will be (i) managing the information about observing systems, networks, and data assets provided via a portal for the Global Ocean Observing System, Biology and Ecosystems Panel (GOOS BioEco) for official launch by the end of 2021 and (ii) provide coordination with the observing systems, networks, and data-producing projects contributing to biological and ecosystem Essential Ocean Variable (EOV) with the aim to bring more of the data from these facilities fully online through OBIS, and become interoperable and reusable as part of an integrated global ocean observing system.

More specifically you will:

- Build relationships with biological and ecosystem observing systems, networks and projects, IODE data centres including OBIS Nodes.
- Quality control, update descriptive information about data contributions based on feedback and further expand the information in the GOOS BioEco portal.
- Contribute to best-practice guideline(s) for standardization, formatting, quality controlling and publishing EOV datasets.
- Build connections and develop alignment, where relevant, with other parts of GOOS with similar function in the physical and biogeochemistry domains, specifically the Observation Coordination Group (GOOS OCG) and OceanOPS, which coordinate across the global ocean observing networks and provide a core function around data, metadata and visualization for the networks and the GOOS. An ability to share relevant information automatically for an integrated view will be important. In addition, there is experience in these established systems that could be supportive.
- Provide help desk support and training to data custodians; assist with formatting, quality controlling, and publishing EOV datasets; and share data processing workflows for the benefit of all EOV data contribution activities.

If you are interested, please find more information in the <a href="https://www.vliz.be/en/vacancy/2021-06-29-vliz-recruits-data-manager-goos-biology" target="_blank">vacancy notice<a/>.