---
author: OBIS secretariat
excerpt: To evaluate how growing needs for data and information can be met, OBIS is
  organizing an online survey. The survey closes at 14 November 2021. It will only
  take 5 minutes of your time. Thanks in advance!
feed: true
identifier: survey
image: /images/survey-click.png
lang: en
layout: post
purpose: news
tags:
- Survey
title: Help us identify your needs for marine biodiversity data
---

Help us identify your needs for marine biodiversity data
Do you need marine biodiversity data to carry out your work? Have you been providing data to OBIS or have you been using data from OBIS? We want to hear from you!
 
In the context of the UN Ocean Decade, international processes and initiatives related to marine biodiversity and increased regional and local needs to map and monitor marine biodiversity in a changing climate, access to open marine biodiversity data is more than ever essential. The Ocean Biodiversity Information System (OBIS) aims to be the most comprehensive gateway to the world’s ocean biodiversity and biogeographic data and information required to address pressing coastal and world ocean concerns. To evaluate how growing needs for data and information can be met, OBIS is organizing an online stakeholders’ survey in November 2021, which will only take 5 minutes of your time.
 
To participate in the survey, please complete the online questionnaire at this [link](https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/OBIS_General_Online_Survey) by 14 November 2021 at the latest.
 
Any questions about the survey can be addressed to nathalie.van.isacker@seascapebelgium.be and nathalie.tonne@seascapebelgium.be. Please indicate ‘OBIS survey’ in the subject of your e-mail.

<p class="text-center"><br/><a href="https://ec.europa.eu/eusurvey/runner/OBIS_General_Online_Survey" target="_blank" class="btn btn-success btn-lg">Take the survey</a></p>