---
author: OBIS Secretariat
excerpt: For the European Horizon project "Marine Protected Areas Europe" (MPA Europe)
  project we looking for a Biodiversity Distribution Modeller to join the OBIS Secretariat,
  based in Ostend (Belgium).
feed: true
identifier: vn-bdm
image: /images/vn_BDM.png
lang: en
layout: post
purpose: news
tags:
- Vacancy
- Biodiversity
- Distribution
title: 'Vacancy: Biodiversity Distribution Modeller'
---

For the European Horizon project "Marine Protected Areas Europe" (MPA Europe) project we are looking for a _Biodiversity Distribution Modeller_ to join the OBIS Secretariat, based in Ostend (Belgium). This is a UNESCO project appointment (UN-P2 level) initially for one year, with possibility of extension subject to availability of funds and satisfactory performance.

MPA Europe will map the optimal locations for Marine Protected Areas (MPA) in European seas using measures covering the range of biodiversity from species to ecosystems, including habitats. An atlas will provide transparency, traceability and enable reproducibility of the results. Its synthesis will show stakeholders (MSP, NGO, students, researchers) why areas have been prioritized. The use of decision support software will enable alternative network designs based on stakeholder preferences and could thus support wider Marine Spatial Planning beyond the subject and study area. UNESCO/IOC/IODE/OBIS will be involved in the species modelling and data distribution.

The project will recruit three (Post-doc) researchers in biodiversity modelling to support the implementation of the MPA Europe project. The positions will be based at three different partner institutions: Nord University (Bodo, Norway), Center of Marine Sciences ((CCMAR), Porto, Portugal), UNESCO/IOC Project Office for IODE (OBIS secretariat, Ostend, Belgium).

Application deadline: **20 December 2022**

Only applications received via the [UNESCO Careers portal](https://careers.unesco.org/job/Ostend-Associate-Project-Officer-%28Researcher-biodiversity-modelling%29/759231202/) will be considered.

More information [here](https://careers.unesco.org/job/Ostend-Associate-Project-Officer-%28Researcher-biodiversity-modelling%29/759231202/).