---
author: OBIS secretariat
excerpt: Do you have a passion for marine biodiversity and climate change research?
  Are you data-savvy and love working with data? If yes, then we have an exciting
  opportunity for you! We are looking for an individual consultant to join our team
  for a 3-month consultancy, starting preferably on May 15th, 2023. The eDNA Scientific
  Data Officer will work on a citizen-science project called "eDNA Expeditions in
  Marine World Heritage Sites," which aims to determine the richness of fish species
  and other marine megavertebrates across 25 marine sites inscribed on the UNESCO
  World Heritage List.
feed: true
identifier: edna_vacancy
image: /images/vn-edna.jpg
lang: en
layout: post
purpose: news
tags:
- Vacancy
- Environmental DNA
- World Heritage
title: 'Job Advertisement: eDNA Scientific Data Officer'
---

Do you have a passion for marine biodiversity and climate change research? Are you data-savvy and love working with data? If yes, then we have an exciting opportunity for you!
 
We are looking for an individual consultant to join our team for a 3-month consultancy, starting preferably on May 15th, 2023. The eDNA Scientific Data Officer will work on a citizen-science project called "eDNA Expeditions in Marine World Heritage Sites," which aims to determine the richness of fish species and other marine megavertebrates across 25 marine sites inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List.
 
As the eDNA Scientific Data Officer, you will collect, review, and make available existing marine biodiversity information from the marine world heritage sites. You will be responsible for collecting and compiling existing species lists and species observation datasets from approximately 25 marine world heritage sites, undertaking meta-analysis of existing research, and summarizing acquired information.
 
To be successful in this role, you should have a strong background in marine biodiversity and data management, with experience in data collection and standardisation. You should also have a keen eye for detail, as well as excellent organizational and communication skills. Being data-savvy and having a love for working with data is a must.
 
This is an excellent opportunity to work on a pioneering scientific project that combines the use of eDNA with existing and local knowledge to raise global awareness on the importance of UNESCO's marine World Heritage sites for the conservation of the world's top ocean biodiversity. You will be working in collaboration with the OBIS team and the eDNA expeditions project coordination team.
 
If you are interested in this opportunity, please submit your application, including a technical proposal and budget, by 3 May 2023. 
 
For the full call details see [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1aYc4NNEjpnzFqu1Q-A_sn0jkQGFOaj0g/view).
 
We look forward to hearing from you!