---
author: OBIS
excerpt: UNESCO-IOC is excited to announce the call for applications for the Ocean
  Training Internships for 2024. For the 2024 cohort, six host institutions will offer
  placements, each specializing in key priority areas. Two OBIS nodes, OBIS Deep-Sea
  and OBIS Australia, will host one intern each.
feed: true
identifier: Internships-2024
image: /images/internships2024-thumb.jpg
lang: en
layout: post
purpose: news
tags:
- Internship
- OBIS
title: 2024 Ocean Training Internships available with OBIS-Australia and OBIS Deep-Sea
  - Applications open
---

UNESCO-IOC is excited to announce the call for applications for the Ocean Training Internships for 2024. This programme is designed to provide hands-on learning and upskilling opportunities through temporary assignments at host institutions renowned for their expertise in areas relevant to the [IOC mandate](https://www.ioc.unesco.org/en/mission-and-objectives){:target="_blank"}.

For the 2024 cohort, six host institutions will offer placements, each specializing in key priority areas. Notably, two of our OBIS nodes, OBIS Deep-Sea and OBIS Australia, will host one intern each, offering a unique opportunity to work within the OBIS community and improve skills in biodiversity data management, biodiversity informatics, biogeography, and ecological niche modelling.

This is a great opportunity for those looking to advance their careers and gain hands-on experience in ocean science and management. 

**Internship Details:**

- Duration: Three months (September – November 2024)  
- Host Institutions: OBIS Australia, OBIS Deep Sea (Refer to Annex I of the Application Guidelines for more details on all institutions)

**For information on eligibility see the [application guidelines](https://ioc-cd.org/images/IOC_Ocean_Training_Internships_Guidelines_FIN.pdf){:target="_blank"}. To apply, complete the application form online [here](https://otga.wufoo.com/forms/z32p47c14qo0wd/){:target="_blank"}.** You will need a recommendation letter from your supervisor at your employing institution.

Questions or requests for more information can be directed to Ms. Johanna Paula Diwa at jp.diwa@unesco.org.

<span style="font-size:120%; color:#ce3b0f; font-weight:bold;">Deadline: Applications must be submitted by 23 June 2024, 23:59 (Central European Time).</span>

Supporting Documents:
- [2024 OCEANTRAINING INTERSHIPS APPLICATION GUIDELINES](https://ioc-cd.org/images/IOC_Ocean_Training_Internships_Guidelines_FIN.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- [OCEANTRAINING INTERNSHIPS APPLICATION TEMPLATE](https://ioc-cd.org/images/2024_Call_OceanTraining_Internships_Application_Form_Template.pdf){:target="_blank"}
- [OECD DAC LIST OF ODA RECIPIENTS 2024](https://ioc-cd.org/images/DAC-List-of-ODA-Recipients-for-reporting-2024-25-flows.pdf){:target="_blank"}